for the families of the Israeli hostages
the worst possible news today three of
their loved ones shot and killed by
Israeli soldiers in Northern Gaza
mistaken says the IDF for Hamas Fighters
the bodies have since been returned to
Israel and two of the victims were
identified today as yotam Haim who was
kidnapped from kibutz kafar AA and Samar
Talala who was abducted from kibutz Niam
the family of the third hostage has
asked for the name not to be revealed
just hours earlier the bodies of three
other hostages were recovered in Gaza
two of them Israeli soldiers Nick Bea
and Ron Sherman just 19 years old and
also 28-year-old Aliyah tadano who'd
been taken by Hamas from the Supernova
Music Festival there is still plenty of
fighting in Northern Gaza this is video
that was taken from Southern Israel on
Friday morning Palestinian sourcers are
also reporting air strikes on KH Yunis
and Rafa in the South with children
reported to be among the casual IES in
Jerusalem the Iron Dome was forced into
action again the first rocket attack to
Target the city in weeks but some
positive news on the aid front today the
Israelis say they are reopening the
Border checkpoint at Karam Shalom for
Aid to go through into Gaza before the
conflict 60% of goods would Transit
through that checkpoint the UN had been
pushing for it to be reopened a decision
welcome by the White House National
Security adviser Jake Sullivan who is
visiting the region Mr Sullivan who met
the Palestinian president Mahmud Abbas
today called it a significant
step joining us tonight at liutenant
Colonel Jonathan krias he's a spokesman
for the Israeli Defense Forces thank you
very much liutenant Colonel for being
with us um can we start with that rather
upsetting news that we've had in the
last hour or so that uh three hostages
shot and killed by the IDF in Northern
Gaza uh after mistaking them as Hamas
Fighters what do you know about that
operation
yes what I can add to your correct
um description of the very sad and
tragic event is that a third um hostage
that was mistakenly killed by Israeli
troops has been his name has been
approved for public release he was Alon
shamis from Kar AA who was also abducted
on the 7th of October and his family has
of course been notified and they have
approved the release of his name and of
course the IDF has expressed our deepest
regret towards the families of those
Fallen Israeli hostages we are
investigating the matter we have already
issued uh lessons and directives for our
troops on the ground in order to
minimize the chances of this happening
again and of course we will continue to
operate relentlessly in order to defeat
Hamas despite this horrible and sad
event and we will not be deterred or
delayed and we will continue to fight
Hamas until it is defeated and until
security is returned to Southern Israel
I'm sure that the details around it will
be subject to to an inquiry is there any
further information you can give us as
to why they were mistaken for Hamas
Fighters were they in the vicinity of
Hamas Fighters were they dressed in a
Palestinian way was there any was there
any other explanation for why they were
shot and killed
yes uh one of them is well there's
actually two one relates to their
clothing they were dressed in civilian
clothing and probably in a similar
fashion to what we have seen Hamas
combatants Hamas Fighters or terrorists
that have been fighting on the ground
against Israeli troops all over the Gaza
Strip in sajia where this happened and
in other locations as well we've seen
Hamas Fighters with RPG grenade
launchers in their hands and AK-47s and
IEDs dressed in civilian clothes and
that adds complexity to the uh
situational awareness of our troops and
the second thing is that before and
after this tragic mistake occurred there
were clashes between Israeli troops in
the area and Hamas combatants and that
apparently was also part of the reasons
for this very sad mistake this
misidentification by Israeli soldiers
terms of the other three bodies that
were recovered the the way it was
reported was that special forces had
gone in and recovered them does that
suggest that Hamas is keeping hold of
these bodies and that they they had to
be taken back by force they weren't they
weren't dumped they were they were being
used as a as
leverage yes all of our
132 remaining hostages are being used as
leverage both those that are alive and
we know that many are still alive and
those that we presume are dead some we
know for sure were taken corpses of
soldiers that were taken when they were
already dead on October the 7th and many
We Fear are now dead because of various
things that happened Hamas abuse and
violence um and yes we know that Hamas
cynically holds on to each and every
Israeli that they have Dead or Alive
civilian or military woman or man and we
have 1777 women still left in Hamas
captivity women and children left in
Hamas captivity and as I said for the
last 70 days these 132 Israelis are now
in Hamas
captivity it's more than two months uh
and you're still not in control full
control of Northern Gaza um another
rocket came across the border today
there's been more intense fighting which
would suggest Hamas still has an ability
to control its troops there is a a
command and control
structure are you talking weeks or
months yes you are correct in what
you're saying Hama still has command and
control they still have the ability to
conduct some levels of operations less
so in the north but still more so in the
South we will continue to operate and
degrade their military capabilities
until they are totally disintegrated
that is our Focus all all over the Gaza
Strip and I wouldn't want to put a time
limit on our operations I will say that
it will we will operate as long as it
takes and we will fight as long as we
need to because we understand that our
Israeli civilians more than 100,000
Israeli civilians that have been forced
out of their homes back in the kibuts
that were assaulted on October the 7th
they have not yet gone back to their
homes and they will not go back to their
homes until it's safe and it will only
be safe after mass is dismantled and
after their Commander control and combat
capabilities are totally disintegrated
and that is what we will do in in
political terms there's a lot of talk at
the moment about some of the daylight
that's appearing between the Israeli
government and the way the the White
House wants this operation to run um
President Biden wants the IDF to
transition to a more targeted phase uh
phase of the operation but according to
us intelligence nearly half the
Munitions that Israel has used in Gaza
have been
unguided missiles otherwise known as
dumb bombs how can you assure people
you're taking the greatest care with
civilian life if you're dropping bombs
that cannot be
precise yeah that is not really accurate
part of what you're saying is accurate
part of it isn't and that report that
CNN report that uh was referencing us
intelligence Anonymous sources that um
didn't um State their names for their
claims but uh those claims aren't really
accurate because they do not take into
consideration addon kits that are added
to ordinary bombs in order to turn them
into what one what Layman usually call
Smart bombs or accurate bombs and they
are a very large part of the weapons
that we have been using um I think that
we will have an official explanation
hopefully shortly for that so-called
report where we will shed more light on
it but what I can say categorically and
I've been saying this we have been
saying this from the beginning of the
operation and we stand by it today as
well we distinguish between militant and
between combatant and non-combatant we
try to use the smallest available
weapons in order to achieve a military
objective and we strike only when there
is a clear military necessity to strike
those are the guidelines that we started
out with those are the guidelines that
we continue to to do today and I take
use a very sad another sad Israeli
example to shed some more light on how
what cautious we are in using um fires
there was a sad incident two days ago
two and a half days ago of 10 Israeli
soldiers that unfortunately were killed
in a Hamas Ambush inside the house um
and they're from the Golani Brigade and
they were killed in an ambush and uh
there were many claims inside Israel by
bereaved families and others who were
asking the IDF why don't you just carpet
bomb and and bomb everything there and
why do we have troops going into houses
and searching our response was that we
use military force were applicable and
according to the mission in this case it
was a search mission where our troops
went in in order to find and understand
what happened we could have bombed the
house from the beginning without going
in which would feed into those theories
that you just referenced but we didn't
we searched it on the ground because we
apply our Force according to the mission
and what needs to be
accomplished okay uh well that's some
context behind uh the operations
leftenant Colonel Jonathan conri is
always grateful for your time thank you
than you for having me let's speak to
hugoo who's in Jerusalem for us tonight
um can we just start very quickly by how
the families have reacted to this news
uh about the the three hostages killed
by the
IDF yeah Christian so we understand that
there's a March now in Tel Aviv and some
relatives and some families are now
marching uh to the headquarters uh of
the IDF the Israeli military I was in
Tel Aviv few days ago talking to some
relatives and Friends of these hostages
more than a 100 people who remain in
captivity in Gaza and uh obviously there
was you know always the risk that as the
Israeli military goes ahead with this
military offens
that some of the captives could be
killed by the Israeli Army I think what
makes this case more tragic is that this
wasn't an air strike that destroyed a
building and uh these captives were
killed they were shot dead by soldiers
on the ground who mistakenly identified
them as hostages so uh a tragic incident
in the words of the Israeli military uh
we had a statement from the Prime
Minister Benjamin Netanyahu who
described this as an unbearable tragedy
and again he vowed to return all
hostages who remain in captivity in Gaza
even at the cost of uh their lives and
he described this as a sacred mission
for the Israeli military